h1. OpenRubyRMK - An open-source and free RPG creation program!
...at least when it's finished. ;-)

h2. Roadmap

OpenRubyRMK is going to be a free and OpenSource RPG creation program when it's finished. As of now, there is some development going on, but we just left the planning state and started coding. So don't be surprised if nothing works. Even this README is a draft yet. 

h3. Using a packaged OpenRubyRMK

This is probably the most common way to use OpenRubyRMK. First, download the current stable version of OpenRubyRMK for your platform and operating system from *TODO: Insert URL here* which will give you a *.tar.bz2 file for *nix and a *.zip file for Windows. As a Windows user, you can just extract the ZIP file and run _bin/OpenRubyRMK.exe_ to run OpenRubyRMK. Users of other systems have to extract their tarball as well, but additionally they need a working Ruby 1.9 installation with the @bundler@ gem installed[1]. On an Ubuntu system (9.10 Karmic or newer only) you now have to either install our precompiled wxruby-ruby19 gem from the "Downloads":http://github.com/Quintus/OpenRubyRMK/downloads page via 

bc. $ gem install --local <path_to_downloaded_gemfile>

or compile wxRuby yourself by following the instructions at the "wxRuby home page":http://wxruby.rubyforge.org/wiki/wiki.pl?BuildingOnTopOfLinuxDistroPackages. Now you can @cd@ into OpenRubyRMK's decompressed directory and execute a 

bc. $ bundle install --without development

to make your Ruby installation ready to run OpenRubyRMK. Finally, start up OpenRubyRMK: 

bc. $ ruby bin/OpenRubyRMK.rb

h3. Get the absolutely latest OpenRubyRMK

If you really want to be cutting-edge and don't care about OpenRubyRMK to crash every now and then you can built OpenRubyRMK from the git sources, i.e. the current development state. Please note that *this is not the recommanded use case* and if you're doing this you should probably think about helping us to develop OpenRubyRMK (see the following section for more information on that). 

1. Get the development version of OpenRubyRMK: 

bc. $ git clone http://github.com/Quintus/OpenRubyRMK.git

2. Make sure you have a working Ruby 1.9 installation with @bundler@ installed. 

3. Install *all* gem dependencies of OpenRubyRMK. Note that the wxRuby problem for Ubuntu 9.10 (Karmic) and newer applies here either plus a second problem: On Windows, wxRuby uses the old win32 controls instead of the newer visual style ones due to compatibility reasons. Instruct wxRuby by adding manifest files to your Ruby's _bin/_ directory as described at "http://wiki.ruby-portal.de/WxRuby#Visual_Styles_unter_Windows":http://wiki.ruby-portal.de/WxRuby#Visual_Styles_unter_Windows to look way better. 

bc. $ cd <path_to_where_OpenRubyRMK_resides>/OpenRubyRMK
$ bundle install #Note the missing --without flag!

4. Package OpenRubyRMK into a deployable form

bc. $ rake compress

5. You now got a package as those we distribute from our website. Proceed with it as in the previous section ("Using a packaged OpenRubyRMK"). 

h3. Develop OpenRubyRMK

Please do! We always appreciate people contributing to OpenRubyRMK! 
The process is merely the same as for "Get absolutely latest OpenRubyRMK", but for completeness I list the steps here once again: 

1. Get the development version of OpenRubyRMK: 

bc. $ git clone http://github.com/Quintus/OpenRubyRMK.git

2. Make sure you have a working Ruby 1.9 installation with @bundler@ installed. 

3. Install *all* gem dependencies of OpenRubyRMK. Note that the wxRuby problem for Ubuntu 9.10 (Karmic) and newer applies here either plus a second problem: On Windows, wxRuby uses the old win32 controls instead of the newer visual style ones due to compatibility reasons. Instruct wxRuby by adding manifest files to your Ruby's _bin/_ directory as described at "http://wiki.ruby-portal.de/WxRuby#Visual_Styles_unter_Windows":http://wiki.ruby-portal.de/WxRuby#Visual_Styles_unter_Windows to look way better. 

bc. $ cd <path_to_where_OpenRubyRMK_resides>/OpenRubyRMK
$ bundle install #Note the missing --without flag!

At this point, we differ. Do not execute @rake compress@, since we want to act on the actual sources of OpenRubyRMK. 

4. Change _config/OpenRubyRMK-rc.yml_ to make the "ruby" option point to your locally installed Ruby. This is important, because if you test your changes by making a simple game OpenRubyRMK tries to use the shipped Ruby installation otherwise and since we haven't executed @rake compress@ yet, there is no shipped Ruby installation. 

5. Do your changes, probably in a new branch. 

6. Reset _config/OpenRubyRMK-rc.yml_ to make the "ruby" option point to "auto" (without the quotes) once again. Note you can skip this step by not commiting the configuration file's changes. 

7. Push your changes upstream or send a pull request. 

These steps, especially #5 and #7, require some knowledge about @git@, the version control system used here at GitHub. Read the "Pro-Git book":http://progit.org/ to become familiar with it. 

h3. Too much text?

OK, I can see the problem with that. You should really read what's stated above, but here is what you want and what you have to do: 

|_. You want to... |_. ...and do/need: |
|run a OpenRubyRMK-created game|Windows: Nothing. Other: Ruby 1.9 with @bundler@ installed.|
|run a compressed OpenRubyRMK|Windows: Nothing. Other: Ruby 1.9 with @bundler@ installed. Execute @bundle install --without development@. See also Footnote 1. *You can't use the Git sources with this setup*!|
|develop OpenRubyRMK|Ruby 1.9 with @bundler@ installed. Execute @bundle install@ without the @--without@ flag! Set the config to your Ruby installation. Reset it before publishing. Windows users need wxRuby manifest files!|
|compress newest OpenRubyRMK from the Git sources|Same as "develop OpenRubyRMK", but no need to change the config. Do a @rake compress@.|

----

fn1. If you want OpenRubyRMK not to touch your own Ruby installation, you can use the Ruby shipped with the compressed version of OpenRubyRMK. Just execute the described steps not with your own Ruby, but with that one shipped with OpenRubyRMK. 

h2. License

OpenRubyRMK is a free and open-source RPG creation program. 

Copyright © 2010 OpenRubyRMK Team

This program is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modifyit under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the Free Software Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or (at your option) any later version.

This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU General Public License for more details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License along with this program.  If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>. 

h3. Contact

You can contact us as via the mail adress openrubyrmk@googlemail.com. 

h3. Disclaimer of Warranty

THERE IS NO WARRANTY FOR THE PROGRAM, TO THE EXTENT PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW. EXCEPT WHEN OTHERWISE STATED IN WRITING THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND/OR OTHER PARTIES PROVIDE THE PROGRAM "AS IS" WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EITHER EXPRESSED OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO,THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. THE ENTIRE RISK AS TO THE QUALITY AND PERFORMANCE OF THE PROGRAM IS WITH YOU. SHOULD THE PROGRAM PROVE DEFECTIVE, YOU ASSUME THE COST OF ALL NECESSARY SERVICING, REPAIR OR CORRECTION.
